.. _minio-sts-assumerole:

==============
``AssumeRole``
==============

.. default-domain:: minio

.. contents:: Table of Contents
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The Buckit Security Token Service (STS) ``AssumeRole`` API endpoint generates
temporary credentials for an existing built-in Buckit user. Applications can
use the returned credentials instead of distributing long-lived access keys.

This endpoint requires AWS Signature Version 4 authentication with the built-in
user's access key and secret key. Temporary credentials and service accounts
cannot call ``AssumeRole`` to mint additional temporary credentials.

The Buckit STS ``AssumeRole`` API endpoint is modeled after the AWS
:aws-docs:`AssumeRole <STS/latest/APIReference/API_AssumeRole.html>` endpoint
and shares certain request and response elements.

Request Endpoint
----------------

The ``AssumeRole`` endpoint has the following form:

.. code-block:: shell

   POST https://buckit.example.net?Action=AssumeRole[&ARGS]

Replace ``buckit.example.net`` with the appropriate URL for your Buckit
deployment. Sign the request with the built-in user's access key and secret key
using SigV4.

Request Query Parameters
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This endpoint supports the following query parameters:

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 20 20 60
   :width: 100%

   * - Parameter
     - Type
     - Description

   * - ``Version``
     - string
     - *Required*

       Specify ``2011-06-15``.

   * - ``DurationSeconds``
     - integer
     - *Optional*

       Specify the number of seconds after which the temporary credentials
       expire. Defaults to ``3600``.

       - The minimum value is ``900`` or 15 minutes.
       - The maximum value is ``31536000`` or 365 days.

   * - ``Policy``
     - string
     - *Optional*

       Specify the URL-encoded JSON-formatted :ref:`policy <minio-policy>` to
       use as an inline session policy.

       - The minimum string length is ``1``.
       - The maximum string length is ``2048``.

       The resulting permissions are the intersection between the built-in
       user's existing permissions and the inline session policy.

Response Elements
-----------------

The XML response for this API endpoint is similar to the AWS
:aws-docs:`AssumeRole response
<STS/latest/APIReference/API_AssumeRole.html#API_AssumeRole_ResponseElements>`.
Specifically, Buckit returns an ``AssumeRoleResult`` object, where the
``Credentials`` object contains the temporary credentials generated by Buckit:

- ``AccessKeyId`` - The access key applications use for authentication.
- ``SecretAccessKey`` - The secret key applications use for authentication.
- ``Expiration`` - The :rfc:`RFC3339 <3339>` date and time after which the
  credentials expire.
- ``SessionToken`` - The session token applications use for authentication.

Error Elements
--------------

The XML error response for this API endpoint is similar to the AWS
:aws-docs:`AssumeRole errors
<STS/latest/APIReference/API_AssumeRole.html#API_AssumeRole_Errors>`.
