.. _minio-sts-assumerolewithcertificate:

=============================
``AssumeRoleWithCertificate``
=============================

.. default-domain:: minio

.. contents:: Table of Contents
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The Buckit Security Token Service (STS) ``AssumeRoleWithCertificate`` API
endpoint generates temporary credentials by authenticating the client with an
X.509 / TLS client certificate.

This endpoint is disabled by default. To use it, enable Buckit's TLS identity
provider support with ``MINIO_IDENTITY_TLS_ENABLE=on`` and configure the server
to accept client certificates.

Buckit maps the client certificate's subject common name (CN) to a matching
:ref:`policy <minio-policy>`. For example, a certificate with ``CN=consoleAdmin``
is associated with a policy named ``consoleAdmin``.

Request Endpoint
----------------

The ``AssumeRoleWithCertificate`` endpoint has the following form:

.. code-block:: shell

   POST https://buckit.example.net?Action=AssumeRoleWithCertificate[&ARGS]

The request must use HTTPS and include a client certificate.

Request Query Parameters
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This endpoint supports the following query parameters:

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 20 20 60
   :width: 100%

   * - Parameter
     - Type
     - Description

   * - ``Version``
     - string
     - *Required*

       Specify ``2011-06-15``.

   * - ``DurationSeconds``
     - integer
     - *Optional*

       Specify the number of seconds after which the temporary credentials
       expire.

       - The minimum value is ``900`` or 15 minutes.
       - The configured TLS STS maximum applies.
       - The returned credentials never outlive the client certificate itself.

Response Elements
-----------------

Buckit returns an ``AssumeRoleWithCertificateResult`` object, where the
``Credentials`` object contains the temporary credentials generated by Buckit:

- ``AccessKeyId`` - The access key applications use for authentication.
- ``SecretAccessKey`` - The secret key applications use for authentication.
- ``Expiration`` - The :rfc:`RFC3339 <3339>` date and time after which the
  credentials expire.
- ``SessionToken`` - The session token applications use for authentication.

Error Elements
--------------

Common failure cases include:

- the TLS identity provider is not enabled
- the request does not use HTTPS
- the client certificate is missing or invalid
- the certificate common name does not map to a valid policy
